myrkr. lowest six or seven notes of the instrument's range, with the exception
of the very lowest b-flat. dynamics slowly varying but all incredibly quiet.
parameterization of vocal cavity transitions notated as vowels. microtones
coequal to 12-et pitches. roughly half of the pitch changes inflected with
glissandi and half of the pitch changes not inflected with glissandi. myrkr
closes the piece. myrkr lasts much longer than expected. myrkr appears first
as a coda and then lasts much too long for a coda: breach by duration. three
to four minutes. or possibly longer. myrkr is animated by an extremely slow
pitch ascent followed by an extremely slow pitch descent. seems like that myrkr
looks back over its shoulder a good couple of times. to what materials does
myrkr flashback? myrkr flahses back to fortissimo overblow; myrkr flashes back
to upper-register portamenti. myrkr first flashes back relatively frequently.
myrkr then flashes back quite infrequently. myrkr eventually flashes back not
at all. there is a moment at which the mind will realize that all flashbacks
have stopped. at this point the true quiet of the piece overtakes the mind.
this true revelation of the piece must not be too short. this true revelation
of the piece must be quite long. a parameter or two must change to mark this
moment of beginning-of-revelation. perhaps a white noise halo has gilded the
edges of myrkr prior to the beginning-of-relevation and perhaps the white noise
halo ceases altogether at the beginning-of-revelation.

to what extent is myrkr foreshadowed in the first third of the piece?

what role does (perceptible) periodicity play in the piece? (perceptible)
periodicity not present in myrkr. (perceptible) periodicity perhaps quite
present as a way of stirring up energy in the first third of the piece.
proportion of piece basically 1:2 with myrkr comprising the latter two thirds
of the piece.

teeth tones occur only in the first third of the piece. where, syntactically,
do the teeth tones occur in the first third of the piece? probably only after
very low notes. maybe also only before very low notes. so then possibly only as
intermittencies between very low notes.

incredibly fast flood of pitches spangled across all registers. rhythms all
fully notated but extremely fast. dynamics vary independently and continuously
against this. probabaly the very quiet dynamics are more interesting than the
very loud dynamics. successive transposition up by a single semitone can be
used to prolong the region of changing pitches. lone slaps can be embedded
within the whirlwind of changing pitches if the slaps are later revealed to
have been hearkening a ritualistic or mechanistic use of slap. this spangled
pitch material will stand in contrast to material of consciouslly structured
register polyphony. how will spangled material move into and out of register
polyphony? how will register polyphony move into and out of register spangling?
how is spangling introduced in the piece? with increasingly more present
foreshadowing inserted at the ends of regions of register polyphony. spangling
can use doubly nested tuplets.

register polyphony. all of the registers are interesting and all of the
dynamics are interesting. register polyphony will probably be most interesting
when some of the registral zones last too long or approach the verge of lasting
too long. register polyphony will probably also be most interesting when
(perceptible) patterns structured into each layer. which (perceptible) patterns
will appear in the layers of register polyphony? pitch ascent. pitch descent.
increasingly long durations. increasingly short durations. pitch repetition
over changing durations. pitch repetition over fixed durations. those six
patterns are enough. how many voices? five. how are changes beween voices
handled? it's not clear how changes are handled between voices because it seems
like changes between voices should express contrast between whatever is going
on in each of the voices as the changes are made. does each of the five voices
carry an internal narrative or an internal development? yes. is it possible
that one of the lowest voices is later revealed to be the myrkr voice? yes. are
the teeth tones housed in one of the upper voices? no; teeth tones are
independent articulations intercalated between regions of polyphony.

out of scope. slaps, trills, smorzato.

how are feather beams used? internal to the regions of some of the five
polyphonic voices. as part of the internal narrative or internal development of
some of the five polyphonic voices.

how is the halo of white noise used? as part of the internal narrative or
internal development of some of the five polyphonic voices. abandoned after the
beginning-of-revelation in the last third of the piece.

how are moments of tongue-to-reed termination used? as part of the internal
narrative or internal development of some of the five polyphonic voices.
usually followed almost immediately by the resumption of (quiet) tone.
sometimes followed by truly hard silence.

fortissimo overblowing. material grows out of single notes in the middle of
some of the five polyphonic voices. is fortissimo overblowing confined to the
lowest of the five polyphonic voices or to the lowest two of the five
polyphonic voices? no; any of the five polyphonic voices can be made
momentarily to dip in register and then overblow. the precursor material to
fortissimo overblowing is undistorted fortissimo tone. the overblown pitch
sometimes changes independently of the fundamental. the fundamental sometimes
changes independently of the overblown pitch. fortissimo overblowing can be
made subject to independent changes of dynamics that will decrease the material
to piano or pianissimo.

do all five polyphonic voices live until the end of the piece? yes, though some
of the voices will go permanently quiet long before some of the others.

how are global accelerandi and global ritardandi handled? as in krummzeit: as
an additional parameter overlayed in its entirety over all the other materials.

###############################################################################
###############################################################################
###############################################################################

polyphonic voices numbered 1 to 5 from lowest to highest. what are the
narratives of the five polyphonic voices?

voice 1. lowest six or seven notes of the instrument's range, with the
exception of the lowest b-flat. (1) relatively long smooth connected notes with
portamenti between each. (2) some notes lose their portamento and remain at a
fixed pitch; these notes are marked with quieter dynamics. (3) most notes have
lost their portamento and carry a quieter dynamic. (4) one of the notes grows
increasingly longer each time it occurs. (5) the long note grows increasingly
loud each time it occurs. (6) the long loud note overblows each time it occurs.
(7) the long loud overblown note disappears leaving only the smoothly connected
quiet notes. (8) the smoothly connected quiet notes develop vocal cavity
parameterization. (9) the amount of pitch change decreases as the written
duration of notes increases. (10) the amount of pitch change further decreases
as the written duration of notes increases all while vocal cavity
parameterization persists. (11) the rate of vocal cavity parameterization
decreases to almost nothing.

voice 1 reexpression. (6) long loud note overblows each time it occurs. (7)
long lound overblown note disappears leaving only smoothly connected quiet
notes. (8) smoothly connected quiet notes develop vocal cavity
parameterization. (9) amount of pitch change decreases as written duration of
notes increases. (1) relatively long smooth connected notes with portamenti
between each. (2) some notes lose their portamento and remain at fixed pitch;
these notes are marked with a quieter dynamic. (3) most notes have lost their
portamento and carry a quieter dynamic. (10) amount of pitch change further
decreases as the written duration of notes increases; vocal cavity
parameterization returns. (11) rate of vocal cavity parameterization decreases
to almost nothing.

voice 4. upper register. (1) caught in a type of game where a sequence of eight
or nine microtonal pitches repeats while a series of five or six durations
repeats underneath; eventually the game would end and the pitches and durations
would reach identity. (2) one of the pitches begins to rise each time it
occurs; together with the rise in pitch comes a lengthening of duration. (3)
pitch and duration of the elected note plateau at a maximum. (4) written
durations of other notes become shorter and shorter. (5) written durations of
other notes become maximally fast. (6) dynamic of loud fixed note increases.
(7) shorter notes disappear leaving only loud fixed note. (7) loud fixed note
persists as indefinitely long single pitch possibly with color modifications.

voice 4 reexpression. retrograde: (7), (6), (5), (4), (3), (2), (1).

voice 3. middle register. (1) slow motion trochaic rhythm in maximally
compressed register. (2) even-division tuplets begin to appear between
trochees. (3) even-division tuplets completely replace trochees. (4) voice
slowly ascends by pitch. (5) tuplets become increasingly dense. (6) tuplets
become maximally dense and register becomes maximally high (though probably
still relatively low).

voice 2. lower register. (1) smoothly connected quiet notes moving from longer
notes to shorter notes; process of decreasing durations repeats. (2) shorter
notes at end of the process swirl. (3) shorter notes at end of process increase
in number while maintaining even and very short duration. (4) first long note
at beginning of process becomes louder and longer and starts to consume
duration of following long notes while leaving shorter faster notes untouched.
(5) short fast notes become increasingly many in number while becoming
increasingly quiet. (6) loud note at begining of process become maximally loud
and long and abuts start of fast quiet notes directly. (7) loud note disappears
leaving only fast quiet notes. (8) fast quiet notes decrescendo al niente.

voice 2 reexpression. (3) shorter notes at end of process increase in number
while maintaining even and very short duration. (4) first long note at
beginning of process becomes louder and longer and starts to consume duration
of following long notes while leaving shorter faster notes untouched. (5) short
fast notes become increasingly many in number while becoming increasingly
quiet. (1) smoothly connected quiet notes moving from longer durations to
shorter durations; process of decreasing durations repeats several times. (2)
shorter notes at end of the process swirl. (6) loud note at beginning of
process becomes maximally loud and long and abust start of fast quiet notes
directly. loud note disappears leaving only fast quiet notes. (8) fast quiet
notes decrescendo al niente.

voice 5. high register. (1) quiet portamenti between irregular rhythms with
relatively fast durations; fixed and compressed register (2) pitches begin to
move slowly down ever so slightly in register; register still compressed. (3)
pitches become caught in loop even though durations continue irregularly. (4)
durations become longer. (5) durations become more regular. (6) durations
become completely regular together with pitches and express a slow-moving loop.

###############################################################################
###############################################################################
###############################################################################

what makes the polyphonic transitions interesting? primarily the perception of
short and intermittent tempo changes. though the register changes themselves
are interesting even absent accompanying tempo changes. one-note polyphonic
transitions are actually very interesting. and in fact it may be possible to
calibrate the construction of the piece in counts of integer numbers of notes
per voice region. this would mean a correspondence between integer note counts
and formal proportions, or at least the possibility of such a correspondence.
(global tempi and tempo transitions will still be applied independently.)
dynamics and hairpins will also still be applied independently. all of this
also means that the rhythmic profile of each voice is relatively
straightforward at any given time: voice 5 is, for instance, written as a
patterned stream of sixteenths and thirty-seconds all under quintuplet
prolation for a recognizable period of time; likewise, voice 4 is written as a
patterned stream of sixteenths and thirty-seconds all under 6:5 prolation; and
voice 3 is written as a patterned stream of eighths and sixteenths under 4:3
prolation; and so on. this means that the *prolational identity* of the voices
is to be recognizable through essentially the entire piece. and note that this
is exactly the right place to work in straightfoward (complete) triplets into
the stream of rhythmic events in each some of the voices. (of course triplets
can be interrupted at the point of a transition between voices, together with
the governing top-level prolation.)

time signatures. time signatures derive secondarily from the integer-valued
note counts of each region. this also means that time signatures can, and do,
carry non-power-of-two denominators freely. longer voice regions are divided
into mulitple measures. one-note polyphonic transitions mean that time
signatures like 1/12 and 1/14 will be frequent. it's possible that the entire
piece can notate without time signatures (even though measures will be
available during the construction of dynamics). it's also possible that
overlapping beams could be used to group each of the voices more-or-less
continuously, with the start- and stop-points of beams specified by hand or
determined according to fingering information included in each voice. though
note that overlapping beams (with accompanying tuplet brackets) will consume
vertical space in the score.

each voice's pitches mix explicit quatertones with color fingerings. the point
is to render the registral space of each voice insistent and to render apparent
both slow and faster changes of contour in each voice. the even more important
point is to render apparent the polyphonic transitions between multiple voices
involved in changes of contour at the same time.

score still divides into segments to speed interpretation.

breath marks. short rests can probably be used in place of breath marks
everywhere in the piece. the sixteenth- or thirty-second- or
sixty-fourth-durated rests can probably be inserted at the end of certain notes
in a patterned way as one of the very last processes applied to the pitches.
dynamics need not pay any attention to the process.

portamenti. portamenti appear between only notes of longer duration. this means
that portamento application depends on the rhythmic construction of each voice.
portamento application should be handled in pass subsequent to rhythmic
construction and pitch application.

polyphonic transitions. (a) quick-moving upper voice dips down into adjacent
voice moving at same prolation for a single note; the effect is register
displacement for the duration of a single note. (b) quick-moving uper voice
dips down into adjacent voice moving at same prolation for a single note; then
repeats the single-note dip several more times at a time interval of 4 or 5
seconds; the effect depends on the pitch behavior of the visited voice; in the
first case the visited voice states the same pitch over and over again; in the
second case the pitch of the visited voice moves; the two cases suggest
different things about the materials to come. (c) rapid back and forth of two
or three notes in one voice followed by two or three notes in an adjacent
voice; this is one type of true compound melody; both voices can express
arbitrarily complex contour changes; intermittent dips of only a single note in
one or the other of the voices can and should appear and are very effective.
(d) previous two types of polyphonic interchange can combine; two adjacent
voices can interbraid while intermittently visiting a more registrally distant
voice for the duration of a single note; again there are two cases as to
whether the visited voice insists on the same pitch or moves between pitches;
the possibilities of interpolating between the compound voice and the
single-note voice are clear; any such interpolation effects an interpolated
change of register. (e) moderate- or slow-moving middle voice proceeding in an
introspective way; occasional one-note dips to low voice; then occasional
one-note dips to upper voice; then increasingly more dips to both lower and
upper voice; then emerging dialogue between lower and upper voice; then
interpolation from predominant introspective middle voice to predominant
quick-moving dialogue between regsitrally separated voices. (f) quick-moving
dialogue between registrally separated voices; contour can move in one or both
voices during dialogue. (g) slow-moving lower voice alternates with rapidly
moving upper voice; not effective at louder dynamics but somehow effective at
very quiet dynamics. (h) slow-moving lower voice interrupted intermittently by
faster-moving upper voice; faster-moving upper voice then bifurcates into
dialogue between two faster-moving upper voices; dialogue between the two
faster-moving upper voices then becomes increasingly prominent and the
slower-moving lower voice becomes increasingly less prominent; effects another
type of registral interpolation.

distribution of fortissimo and distorted regions. fortissimo and distorted
regions most naturally emerge from long notes. long notes can be presented as
literal long notes. or long notes can be chopped up and presented as an
insistent pitchin a single voice. there is also a second effective way to lead
into fortissimo and distorted regions: insistent crescendo can be applied to a
line with moving pitches such that the end-point of the crescendo is a
fortissimo or distorted region; then two cases are possible; in the first case
the pitch of the fortissimo or distorted region remains fixed; in the second
case the pitch of the fortissimo or distorted region moves. probably one thing
that is true thoughout the piece is that fortissimo and distorted regions occur
only within a single voice and effect no polyphonic transitions for the length
of the region.

special moments. (A) tuplet-monad-like field (quietly) exploding in single
notes rapidly moving back and forth between four of the five voices or between
all five voices. a clear dynamic trend can smooth over the texture of the
region; a cyclic application of crescendi can draw out irregularities of the
material; point dynamics attached to individual notes in the material can add
flecks of interest and be used as a way to introduce subsequent materials. (B)
there's the possibility of a type of linear tour up or down the five voices in
order of register; three or four notes in voice 1, then three or four notes in
voice 2, then three or four notes in each of voices 3, 4 and 5; the effect is
rhetorical and possibly dramatic. (C) the rhythmically smoothed-out version of
the tuplet monad field is rapid movement between four of the five voices (or
between all five of the voices) for the duration of a single note but with all
notes played at more or less the same speed.